# Helmetless Detection of Motorcycle Riders and Their Correseponding License Plates
With the exponential increase of traffic in India, the number of accidents are also increasing exponentially. Most of the reported deaths due to accidents involving two-wheeler are caused due to not wearing a helmet. There is thus a need for better implementation of safety regulation.
Our project helps traffic police in better law enforcement due to automation in the detection of law-breaker, that is, riders without helmets. The project is based on image processing and deep learning. The algorithm built will classify the two-wheelers in a moving traffic video, will extract head portion of the person/s on two-wheelers, following which, it would detect if he is wearing a helmet or not and if the person is not wearing the helmet it will also extract the number plate of two-wheeler. After extracting number plate, it will process it to get the registration number and it will report to RTO office. If the report comes for more than three times, strict actions may be taken against the registered person.
This project can ease the burden of traffic police and can also save many lives. It will be free from human-error like, if there is a lot of traffic the policemen standing on that spot are unable to manage and punish all of them. Sometimes they increase their speed and do not stop if the officers call them. This kind of loop-holes can be eliminated as it directly takes the number of the two-wheeler from the video and reports it to concern office.
